Clarify JSON Parsing (#17372)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/sql/create-source/_index.md

Support for the more ergonomic `FORMAT JSON` is in progress {{% gh 7186 %}}!
{{</ note >}}

> Materialize cannot decode JSON directly from an external data source. Instead, you must create a source that reads the data as [raw bytes](#bytes), and then handle the conversion to [`jsonb`](/sql/types/jsonb) using view. We also recommend parsing that `jsonb` into primitive types using a materialized view so that subsequent queries optimize performance and avoid redundant parsing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Materialize cannot decode JSON directly from an external data source. Instead, you must create a source that reads the data as [raw bytes](#bytes), and handle the conversion to primitive types using [`jsonb`](/sql/types/jsonb) as an intermediate representation.
```

```sql
-- create raw byte array source
CREATE SOURCE my_bytea_source
  FROM ...
  FORMAT BYTES
  WITH (SIZE='3xsmall');

> -- convert from byte array to text to jsonb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- convert from byte array to jsonb
```

CREATE VIEW my_jsonb_source AS
  SELECT
    CONVERT_FROM(data, 'utf8')::jsonb AS data
  FROM bytea_source;

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To avoid redundant processing and ensure a typed representation of the source is available across clusters, you should create a [materialized view](/overview/key-concepts/#materialized-views).
```

> -- parse jsonb into typed fields (subsequent queries should select from this)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- parse jsonb into typed columns
```

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW my_typed_source AS
  SELECT
    (data->>'field1')::boolean AS field_1,
    (data->>'field2')::int AS field_2,
    (data->>'field3')::float AS field_3
  FROM my_jsonb_source;
```

> Raw byte-formatted sources have one column, by default named `data`. For more details on handling JSON-encoded messages, check the [`jsonb` type](/sql/types/jsonb) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on handling JSON-encoded messages, check the [`jsonb` type](/sql/types/jsonb) documentation.
```

> Raw byte-formatted sources have one column, by default named `data`. For more details on handling JSON-encoded messages, check the [`jsonb` type](/sql/types/jsonb) documentation.

Reviewer: This last sentences sits a little awkward here now.
